README.md, before:

VerbalExpressions.rb v0.1.0
=====================

## Ruby Regular Expressions made easy
VerbalExpressions is a Ruby library that helps to construct difficult regular expressions - ported from the awesome JavaScript [VerbalExpressions](https://github.com/jehna/VerbalExpressions).

## How to get started

Just install with `gem install verbal_expressions`, then require the library and you're good to go!
```ruby
require 'verbal_expressions'
```

## Examples

Here's a couple of simple examples to give an idea of how VerbalExpressions works:

### Testing if we have a valid URL

```ruby
# Create an example of how to test for correctly formed URLs
tester = VerEx.new do
  start_of_line
  find 'http'
  maybe 's'
  find '://'
  maybe 'www.'
  anything_but ' '
  end_of_line
end

# Create an example URL
test_url = "https://www.google.com"

# Use it just like a regular Ruby regex:
puts 'Hooray!  It works!' if tester.match(test_url)
puts 'This works too!' if tester =~ test_url

# Print the generated regex:
puts tester.source # => /^(http)(s)?(\:\/\/)(www\.)?([^\ ]*)$/ 
```

### Replacing strings

```ruby
# Create a test string
replace_me = "Replace bird with a duck"

# Create an expression that seeks for word "bird"
expression = VerEx.new { find 'bird' }

# Execute the expression like a normal Regexp object
result = replace_me.gsub( expression, "duck" );

puts result # Outputs "Replace duck with a duck"
```

## API documentation

I haven't added much documentation to this repo yet, but you can find the documentation for the original JavaScript repo on their [wiki](https://github.com/jehna/VerbalExpressions/wiki).  Most of the methods have been ported as of v0.1.0 of the JavaScript repo.  Just be sure to use the syntax explained above rather than the dot notation :)

## Contributions
Clone the repo and fork!  
Pull requests are warmly welcomed!

## Issues
 - I haven't yet ported the modifier code because Ruby Regexp handles modifiers a little differently.
 - Because `or` is reserved in Ruby, `or` is currently aliased to `alternatively`.  Unforunately, `then` is also reserved, so you must use `find` instead.  I'm very open to better name ideas :)

## Thanks!
Thank you to @jehna for coming up with the awesome original idea!

Commit message:

added travis-ci, renamed gem, migrated from rdoc to yard

README.md, after:

Verbal
=====================

## Overview
Verbal is a Ruby library that helps to construct difficult regular expressions - ported from the awesome JavaScript [VerbalExpressions](https://github.com/jehna/VerbalExpressions).

## Installation

```sh
$> gem install verbal
```

```ruby
require 'verbal'
```

## Examples

Here's a couple of simple examples to give an idea of how VerbalExpressions works:

### Testing if we have a valid URL

```ruby
# Create an example of how to test for correctly formed URLs
tester = VerEx.new do
  start_of_line
  find 'http'
  maybe 's'
  find '://'
  maybe 'www.'
  anything_but ' '
  end_of_line
end

# Create an example URL
test_url = "https://www.google.com"

# Use it just like a regular Ruby regex:
puts 'Hooray!  It works!' if tester.match(test_url)
puts 'This works too!' if tester =~ test_url

# Print the generated regex:
puts tester.source # => /^(http)(s)?(\:\/\/)(www\.)?([^\ ]*)$/
```

### Replacing strings

```ruby
# Create a test string
replace_me = "Replace bird with a duck"

# Create an expression that seeks for word "bird"
expression = VerEx.new { find 'bird' }

# Execute the expression like a normal Regexp object
result = replace_me.gsub( expression, "duck" );

puts result # Outputs "Replace duck with a duck"
```

## Issues
 - I haven't yet ported the modifier code because Ruby Regexp handles modifiers a little differently.
 - Because `or` is reserved in Ruby, `or` is currently aliased to `alternatively`.  Unforunately, `then` is also reserved, so you must use `find` instead.  I'm very open to better name ideas :)

## Thanks!
Thank you to @jehna for coming up with the awesome original idea!

Thank you to @ryan-endacott for the original port!
